---
title: Core technology
has_children: true
nav_order: 3
published: true
---

# Introduction

Fluxtion is a DI container that combines dependency injection with event dispatch for realtime data processing.
The Fluxtion container can be thought of as a spreadsheet on steroids, each bean is like a formula cell, if any input
to the formula changes the spreadsheet forces a recalculation. As the container receives an event Fluxtion evaluates
which beans are connected to the handler and only triggers the connected beans for recalculation.

Following the spreadsheet analogy, the programmer provides the formula cells and immediate dependencies. The spreadsheet
calculates the global set of dependencies and manages the recalculation of formulas when any cell is updated. Delegating
the mechanical but difficult task of calculating global dependencies to an algorithm allows us to build spreadsheets
that are complex but very predictable. Enabling non programmers to solve computational problems that would be out of
their reach without the support of the spreadsheet engine.

Fluxtion brings this spreadsheet like paradigm and efficiency benefits to the realtime processing world. Methods on
beans are the formula cells, references between beans are the formula dependencies. The Fluxtion dependency analyser
uses the dependency information to calculate the global set of dependencies. When any bean is updated from an external
event dependent recalculation methods are called.

With Fluxtion a single junior developer can build and maintain event driven logic that would have previously required a
team of specialist experienced developers
{: .info }

## Key terms

| Term                 | Description                                                                                                                                     |
|----------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Event                | An event is any valid java instance that is submitted to the event processor                                                                    |
| Stream               | A stream is a set of events                                                                                                                     |
| EventProcessor       | Processes the event stream with user defined logic. An EventProcessor instance is generated by Fluxtion                                         |
| DI container         | interchangeable term for EventProcessor                                                                                                         |
| Node                 | A pojo instance that is managed within an EventProcessor                                                                                        |
| Managed bean         | interchangeable term for node                                                                                                                   |
| Event propagation    | Invoking methods in a topological order on nodes within an EventProcessor                                                                       |
| Event handler method | A method on a node that is an entry point for processing an external event                                                                      |
| Trigger method       | A method on a node that is triggered once all parent nodes have completed their trigger methods                                                 |
| Event notification   | Trigger or event handler methods notify a change by returning a boolean flag to control event propagation                                       |
| Graph space          | Construction of the meta model occurs in graph space, before generating the EventProcessor and after the user has provided all node information |

Fluxtion can be classified as a combination of incremental computation and data flow programming.

# Event dispatch rules
Notification connections between beans are calculated at construction time using the same data that is used to add beans
to the DI container and annotations that mark recalculation methods.

When the proxy event handler method is called on the container it dispatches with the following with logic:

- Any top level event handler is invoked with the arguments provided
- The event handler method indicates whether child instances should be notified with a Boolean return type
- Any child reference defined in the DI structure is conditionally notified of the parent event handler completing
  processing
- A child instance can only be notified if all of its parents have finished processing their notifications
- The trigger method of the child returns a Boolean indicating whether the event notification should propagate
- The container recursively works through the child references and trigger methods in the container
- Dispatch callbacks are in strict topological order, with the event handler the root of the call tree
- Each instance is guaranteed to be invoked at maximum once per event processing cycle
- Any instances not connected to an executing root event handler will not be triggered in the cycle
- Connections can be either direct or through a reference chain

